Document Date & Version 
 
Researcher Date & Version 
10/08/2021 
TEMPLATE Consent Form, Standard 
4/29/2022 
Version 11.00 
Version 1. 0 
 
 
Page 1 of 6 
 
 
 
 
 
Intervention Informed Consent Form 
NCT04152603 
Approved May 5, 2022 
 
 
Document Date & Version 
 
Researcher Date & Version 
10/08/2021 
TEMPLATE Consent Form, Standard 
4/29/2022 
Version 11.00 
Version 1. 0 
 
 
Page 2 of 6 
 
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON 
CONSENT FORM 
Better Research Interactions for Every Family (BRIEF): Research Team Intervention  
Researchers:  
[contact information omitted] 
 
We are asking you to be in a research study. This form gives you information to help you decide 
whether or not to be in the study. Being in the study is voluntary. Please read this carefully. You 
may ask any questions about the study. Then you can decide whether or not you want to be in the 
study. 
PURPOSE OF THE STUDY 
Parents asked to enroll their infant in neonatal research commonly report stress around this 
decision. These issues are likely worse for under-represented populations, who are less likely to 
be included in neonatal research.  
The purpose of this study is to test the feasibility of using a modified recruitment approach for 
the Darbe plus IV iron (DIVI) neonatal clinical trial. We have two overall goals: 1) improve the 
experience for parents asked to enroll their infant in a neonatal clinical trial with a special focus 
on the concerns that arise for those from under-represented populations and 2) decrease 
disparities in enrollment within a neonatal clinical trial. 
 
STUDY PROCEDURES 
If you participate in this study: 
 
1. You will invite families whom you are approaching for participation in DIVI to participate in 
an audio-recorded informed consent discussion during the two periods of time, one before 
and one after the educational module described below. We will inform you when we enter 
the phase of the study that includes audio recording. You will audio-record your consent 
discussion with the parents that agree.  
2. You will complete an online self-assessment survey after each audio-recorded informed 
consent discussion. Each self-assessment survey should last under five minutes. 
3. You will complete an educational module about halfway through recruitment for the 
Darbe Plus IV Iron Study. The module has multi-media components. The first part will be 
online and self-directed (up to 30 minutes). The second part will be a single in-person (or 
virtual, if necessary) session (up to 90 minutes). The third part will be a brief, informal 
follow-up phone call about 2-4 weeks after the in-person session (up to 15 minutes).  
4. You will complete an end-of-study interview to get your feedback about their experience 
using the intervention. The interview will be conducted over Zoom or on the phone at a time 
that is convenient for you and will last approximately 30 minutes. 
 
You may refuse to answer any question or item in any assessment, questionnaire, or interview. 
Your participation in the study will end after the interview. The duration of your participation in 
this study will be approximately as long as you are doing recruitment for the Darbe Plus IV Iron 
Study.   
Document Date & Version 
 
Researcher Date & Version 
10/08/2021 
TEMPLATE Consent Form, Standard 
4/29/2022 
Version 11.00 
Version 1. 0 
 
 
Page 3 of 6 
 
 
RISKS, STRESS, OR DISCOMFORT 
You might find it upsetting or annoying to talk with us about your experiences, so we can pause 
or stop our discussion at any time. You can also choose not to answer any particular questions. 
 
There is a risk of a loss of confidentiality.  We will take all measures to prevent this from 
happening, including removing all identifying information from the self-assessments and 
interview transcripts. Also, all publications that result from this research will not identify you 
specifically. 
 
BENEFITS OF THE STUDY 
There is no expected benefit to you of participating in this study. 
 
SOURCE OF FUNDING 
The study team and/or the University of Washington is receiving financial support from the 
National Institutes of Health. 
 
CONFIDENTIALITY OF RESEARCH INFORMATION 
A description of this clinical trial will be available on http://www.clinicaltrials.gov, as required 
by U.S. Law. This Web site will not include information that can identify you. At most, the Web 
site will include a summary of the results. You can search this Web site at any time.  
 
As grant-funded research, we have a Certificate of Confidentiality from the National Institutes 
of Health.  This helps us protect your privacy.  The Certificate means that we do not have to 
give out information, documents, or samples that could identify you even if we are asked to by a 
court of law.  We will use the Certificate to resist any demands for identifying information.   
 
We can’t use the Certificate to withhold your research information if you give your written 
consent to give it to an insurer, employer, or other person.  Also, you or a member of your family 
can share information about yourself or your part in this research if you wish. 
 
There are some limits to this protection. We will voluntarily provide the information to: 
• a member of the federal government who needs it in order to audit or evaluate the 
research; 
• individuals at the institution(s) conducting the research, the funding agency, and other 
groups involved in the research, if they need the information to make sure the research is 
being done correctly; 
• the federal Food and Drug Administration (FDA), if required by the FDA; 
• individuals who want to conduct secondary research if allowed by federal regulations and 
according to your consent for future research use as described in this form; 
• authorities, if we learn of child abuse, elder abuse, or the intent to harm yourself or 
others.  
 
Document Date & Version 
 
Researcher Date & Version 
10/08/2021 
TEMPLATE Consent Form, Standard 
4/29/2022 
Version 11.00 
Version 1. 0 
 
 
Page 4 of 6 
 
The Certificate expires when the NIH funding for this study ends.  Currently this is 2/28/2026.  
Any data collected after expiration is not protected as described above.  Data collected prior to 
expiration will continue to be protected.   
  
The following describes the type of information the study will create, use or share, who may use 
it or share it, and the purposes for which it may be used or shared. 
 
This information may include things like: 
• Information specific to you like your name. 
 
This information may be used by or shared with: 
• Researchers (such as doctors and their staff) taking part in this study here and at other 
centers, 
• Research sponsors – this includes any persons or companies working for, with, or owned 
by the sponsor, 
• Review boards (such as the University of Washington Institutional Review Board), data and 
safety monitoring boards, and others responsible for watching the conduct of research (such 
as monitors), 
• Governmental agencies like the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the 
Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), including similar agencies in other 
countries, and 
• Public health authorities to whom we are required by law to report information for the 
prevention or control of disease, injury, abuse, or disability. 
 
 This information may be used or shared to:  
• Complete and publish the results of the study described in this form, 
• Study the results of this research,  
• Check if this study was done correctly, and  
• Comply with non-research obligations (if we think you or someone else could be harmed) 
 
There is no time limit for the use or sharing of your information. Researchers continue to analyze 
data for many years, and it is not always possible to know when they will be done.   
 
If the results of the study are published, information that identifies you would not be used. 
 
If you decide that we cannot use or share your information, you cannot participate in this study.   
 
USE OF INFORMATION  
Using Your Data in Future Research 
The information that we obtain from you for this study might be used for future studies. We may 
remove anything that might identify you from the information. If we do so, that information may 
then be used for future research studies or given to another investigator without getting 
additional permission from you. It is also possible that in the future we may want to use or share 
study information that might identify you. If we do, a review board will decide whether or not 
Document Date & Version 
 
Researcher Date & Version 
10/08/2021 
TEMPLATE Consent Form, Standard 
4/29/2022 
Version 11.00 
Version 1. 0 
 
 
Page 5 of 6 
 
we need to get additional permission from you.  
 
OTHER INFORMATION 
You may refuse to participate and you are free to withdraw from this study at any time without 
penalty or loss of benefits to which you are otherwise entitled. If you wish to withdraw, please 
contact the researcher listed on page 1 of this consent form. 
The research team will offer you the following incentives for participating in this study: 
 
• $100 following completion of the educational module 
• $100 after completion of closing interview at end of study. 
 
A copy of the consent form will be emailed to you at an email address that you provide. It will be 
a “PDF” document. Most computers already have PDF viewer software installed, which will 
allow you to open, read, or print the consent form. The email we send you will include a link to 
PDF viewer software (such as Adobe Acrobat Reader) in case your computer doesn’t already 
have it. If you would prefer to receive a paper copy of the consent form at no cost to you, please 
contact the researcher listed on page 1 of this consent form. 
 
 
RESEARCH-RELATED INJURY 
If you think you have been harmed from being in this research, contact [contact information 
omitted] 
 
 
 
Document Date & Version 
 
Researcher Date & Version 
10/08/2021 
TEMPLATE Consent Form, Standard 
4/29/2022 
Version 11.00 
Version 1. 0 
 
 
Page 6 of 6 
 
Consent Presenter Statement 
I have provided this participant with information about this study. The participant has been 
given sufficient time to consider participation and I have answered any questions they had. The 
participant indicated that they understand the nature of the study, including risks and benefits of 
participating. 
 
 
 
Printed name of study staff obtaining consent 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Participant’s statement 
This study has been explained to me.  I volunteer to take part in this research.  I have had a 
chance to ask questions.  If I have questions later about the research, or if I have been harmed by 
participating in this study, I can contact one of the researchers listed on the first page of this 
consent form.  If I have questions about my rights as a research subject, I can call the Human 
Subjects Division at (206) 543-0098 or call collect at (206) 221-5940.  I will receive a copy of 
this consent form. 
 
 
Printed name of participant 
 
Signature of participant 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Copies to: 
Researcher 
 
 
Participant 
 
 
 
 
