COVER PAGE
Informed Consent Form
OFFICIAL TITLE: Comparison of laparoscopic versus open 
right colectomy for right colon cancer, according to the complete 
mesocolic excision (CME) principles: a prospective randomized 
controlled trial 
BRIEF TITLE: Laparoscopic versus open right colectomy for right colon cancer 
UNIQUE PROTOCOL ID: LORC
DOCUMENT DATE: February 2023
CLINICALTRIALS.GOV ID: NCT05713903
Principal Investigator:
Konstantinos Perivoliotis, MD
Telephone: 00302413501000
Email: kperi19@gmail.com
Sub-Investigators:
Ioannis Baloyiannis, MD, PhD Assistant Professor of Surgery
Study Director
George Tzovaras, Professor of General Surgery
Telephone: 00302413502804
Email: gtzovaras@hotmail.com
Department of Surgery
University Hospital of Larissa
Mezourlo 41110 Larissa
Greece
1
 
Research Protocol:
Comparison of laparoscopic versus open right colectomy for right colon cancer, 
according to the complete mesocolic excision (CME) principles: a prospective 
randomized controlled trial
The purpose of this research protocol is to compare laparoscopic versus open right 
colectomy according to the complete mesocolic excision principles (CME) in patients with 
right colon cancer. The study protocol is designed as a prospective randomized controlled 
study. The comparison of the two groups will be based on early and late postoperative 
endpoints. In addition, the efficacy of both approaches in terms of the specimen quality 
characteristics and the oncological outcomes will be evaluated.
1. Procedure
The patient will be admitted to the surgical department according to the predetermined 
procedure. All the necessary preoperative and laboratory examinations will be performed. 
A multidisciplinary oncology board will follow to determine the optimal treatment. The 
patient, then, will be randomized to one of the two groups. Following this, the patient will 
be  submitted  to  the  optimal  operation  for  him  /  her  to  treat  his  /  her  condition. 
Postoperatively the patient will be monitored in the surgical department according to the 
existing protocols and guidelines.
2. Dangers
The risks are related to the possible postoperative complications from the operation.
3. Expected benefits
The research will result to the publication of data - results. Your participation in the 
protocol  implies  that you  agree  with  future  publication of  results,  provided  that  the 
information will be anonymous, and the names of the participants will not be disclosed. The 
data that will be collected will be encoded with a number, so that your name will not appear 
anywhere.
4. Information
Do not hesitate to ask questions regarding the purpose or the process of the protocol. If 
you have any doubts or questions, please ask us to give you clarifications.
5. Participation
UNIVERSITY OF THESSALY, DEPARTMENT OF 
MEDICINE
UNIVERSITY GENERAL HOSPITAL OF LARISSA
Mezourlo, 41110, Larissa
SURGERY CLINIC…
Director: Professor Zacharoulis Dimitrios
A 'Building, 2nd Floor, P.G.N. Of Larissa
 
UNIVERSITY OF THESSALY, FACULTY OF MEDICINE
UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL OF LARISSA
Mezourlo, 41110, Larissa GREECE
GENERAL SURGERY DPT.
Chairman: Prof. Zacharoulis Dimitrios
A 'Wing, 2nd Floor, University Hospital of Larissa
Your participation in the protocol is voluntary. You are free to disagree or cancel your 
participation whenever you wish.
6. Informed consent
I have read this form and I understand the processes that I will follow. I agree to 
participate in the research protocol.
 
Date: __/__/__
Participant Name and 
Signature
Investigator Signature
Principal Investigator:
Konstantinos Perivoliotis, MD
Telephone: 00302413501000
Email: kperi19@gmail.com
Study Director:
George Tzovaras, Professor of 
General Surgery
Telephone: 00302413502804
Email: gtzovaras@hotmail.com
3
