Version #2 - October 27, 2021
 
Protocol # - Pro2021002091
Page 1 of 7
CONSENT TO TAKE PART IN A RESEARCH STUDY
TITLE OF STUDY:  Enhancing Exercise Intensity, Motivation and Enjoyment for Healthy 
Adults (VCycle-Competition-HA)
Principal Investigator: Judith Deutsch PT PhD
This informed consent form provides information about a research study and what will be 
asked of you if you choose to take part in it. If you have any questions now or during the study, 
if you choose to take part in it, you should feel free to ask them and should expect to be given 
answers you completely understand. It is your choice whether to take part in the research. Your 
alternative to taking part is not to take part in the research.  
After all of your questions have been answered and you wish to take part in the research study, 
you will be asked to sign this informed consent form. You are not giving up any of your legal 
rights by agreeing to take part in this research or by signing this consent form.
Who is conducting this research study?
Dr. Deutsch is the Principal Investigator of this research study. Dr. Deutsch is a named inventor 
on a virtual reality system not related to this project. A Principal Investigator has the overall 
responsibility for the conduct of the research. However, there are often other individuals who 
are part of the research team.
Dr. Deutsch may be reached at:  65 Bergen Street SSB, Room # 912,  phone # (973-972-2373)
Dr. Deutsch, Mr. Palmieri or another member of the study team will also be asked to sign this 
informed consent.  You will be given a copy of the signed consent form to keep.
Why is this study being done?
The purpose of this study is to learn about how healthy adults experience bicycling in different 
virtual environments. 
Who may take part in this study and who may not?
You may take part in this study if you are a healthy adult between the ages of 21 and 75 years 
old and are able to ride a bicycle.
You may not participate in this study if you:
Pro2021002091
            12/6/2021
Version #2 - October 27, 2021
 
Protocol # - Pro2021002091
Page 2 of 7

Have a recent history of severe heart disease, severe lung disease, uncontrolled diabetes, 
traumatic brain injury or any other neurological disorder

Are unable to follow directions or sign a consent form

Do not have adequate vision or hearing ability to see or hear a television

Have unstable medical condition or musculoskeletal disorder such as severe arthritis, recent knee 
surgery, hip surgery, or any other condition that the investigators determine would impair the 
ability to ride the bicycle

Have any other medical condition that prevents bicycling.

Have moderate depression.
Why have I been asked to take part in this study?
You are being asked to participate in this study because you are a healthy adult and fit the 
inclusion requirements for this study.
How long will the study take and how many subjects will take part?
You will be one of 50 persons participating in this study. Participation will consist of one visit 
that will last approximately 1.5 hours. 
What will I be asked to do if I take part in this study?
You will be asked about your exercise activity. You will then be shown and given a chance to 
practice three bicycling activities. During each of the activities you will be wearing virtual reality 
goggles.  Once you are familiar with each activity, you will be asked to participate in each 
activity for 8 minutes.  After each activity, you will fill out a short survey about your experience. 
You will also be asked a few questions about each activity during which you will be audiotaped. 
What are the risks and/or discomforts I might experience if I take part in this study?
There are no major risks associated with participation in this research study. However, there is 
minimal risk that you may experience mild fatigue, dizziness; but, a clinician will be standing by 
you at all times to ensure your safety.  You may also experience some minor redness or 
discomfort from wearing the goggles.
Are there any benefits to me if I choose to take part in this study?
The benefits of taking part in this study may be:
        Your input will contribute to building useful tools for exercise for healthy adults. However, 
it is possible that you may not receive any direct benefit from taking part in this study.
What are my alternatives if I do not want to take part in this study?
There are no alternative treatments available.   Your alternative is not to take part in this study.
Pro2021002091
            12/6/2021
Version #2 - October 27, 2021
 
Protocol # - Pro2021002091
Page 3 of 7
How will I know if new information is learned that may affect whether I am willing to stay in 
the study?
During the course of the study, you will be updated about any new information that may affect 
whether you are willing to continue taking part in the study.  If new information is learned that 
may affect you after the study or your follow-up is completed, you will be contacted.
Will there be any cost to me to take part in this study?
No there is no cost to you if you take part of this study.
Will I be paid to take part in this study?
You will receive $25.00 for taking part in this study according to this schedule
          - $25.00 at the completion of the session
How will information about me be kept private or confidential?
All efforts will be made to keep your personal information in your research record confidential, 
but total confidentiality cannot be guaranteed. Questionnaire responses will be coded and only 
identified by number. All data will be stored in SSB 736 & SSB 912 in a locked cabinet. The links 
to personal identifiers will be contained in a single file on the PIs password protected desktop. 
PHI will only be reported in aggregate.  
What will happen if you are injured during this study?
Subjects in this study will be exposed to certain risks of personal injury in addition to those 
associated with standard forms of treatment, which include: mild fatigue or loss of balance. In 
addition, it is possible that during the course of this study, new adverse effects of bicycling in a 
virtual environment may be discovered. The University will make appropriate referrals for 
medical and/or dental treatment for subjects who sustain personal injuries or illnesses as a 
direct consequence of participation in the research. The subject’s health insurance carrier or 
other third-party payer will be billed for the cost of this treatment; provided that the University 
shall not submit to federally funded programs, e.g., Medicare, Medicaid or CHAMPUS, for 
reimbursement first if submission to such programs is prohibited by law.  No financial 
compensation will be provided by the University and no other type of assistance is available 
from the University.
What will happen if I do not wish to take part in the study or if I later decide not to stay in the 
study?
It is your choice whether to take part in the research. You may choose to take part, not to take 
part or you may change your mind and withdraw from the study at any time.
Pro2021002091
            12/6/2021
Version #2 - October 27, 2021
 
Protocol # - Pro2021002091
Page 4 of 7
If you do not want to enter the study or decide to stop taking part, your relationship with the 
study staff will not change, and you may do so without penalty and without loss of benefits to 
which you are otherwise entitled.
You may also withdraw your consent for the use of data already collected about you, but you 
must do this in writing to Dr. Deutsch (deutsch@rutgers.edu, 973-972-2373)
At any time, the study doctor can take you out of this study because it would not be in your 
best interest to stay in it. Your study doctor can stop treatment even if you are willing to stay in 
the study.
If you decide to withdraw from the study for any reason, you may be asked to return for at least 
one additional visit for safety reasons.
Who can I call if I have questions?
If you have any questions about taking part in this study or if you feel you may have suffered a 
research related injury, you can call the study doctor:
Judith Deutsch PT PhD
Rehabilitation and Movement Science Department
973-972-2373
If you have any questions about your rights as a research subject, you can call:
            IRB Director
            973-972-3608 Newark
                and
           Human Subject Protection Program
             973-972-1149 
PERMISSION (Authorization) TO USE OR SHARE HEALTH INFORMATION THAT IDENTIFIES YOU 
FOR A RESEARCH STUDY
The next few paragraphs tell you about how investigators want to use and share identifiable 
health information from your medical record in this research. Your information will only be 
used as described here or as allowed or required by law. If you sign this consent form, you 
agree to let the investigators use your identifiable health information in the research and share 
it with others as described below. Ask questions if there is something you do not understand.
What is the purpose of the research and how will my information be used?
Pro2021002091
            12/6/2021
Version #2 - October 27, 2021
 
Protocol # - Pro2021002091
Page 5 of 7
You are being invited to take part in this research study which is described at the beginning of 
this form. The purpose of collecting and using your health information for this study is to help 
researchers answer the questions that are being asked in the research.
What information about me will be used? 

Name

Age

Email address
Who may use, share or receive my information?
The research team may use or share your information collected or created for this study with 
the following people and institutions:

Rutgers University researchers involved in the study

The Rutgers University Institutional Review Board and Compliance Boards

The Office for Human Research Protections in the U.S. Dept. of Health and Human 
Services
Those persons or organizations that receive your information may not be required by Federal 
privacy laws to protect it and may share your information with others without your permission, 
if permitted by the laws governing them.  
Will I be able to review my research record while the research is ongoing?
No. We are not able to share information in the research records with you until the study is 
over. To ask for this information, please contact the Principal Investigator, the person in charge 
of this research study.  
Do I have to give my permission?
No. You do not have to permit use of your information. But, if you do not give permission, you 
cannot take part in this study. (Saying no does not stop you from getting medical care or other 
benefits you are eligible for outside of this study.) 
If I say yes now, can I change my mind and take away my permission later?
Yes. You may change your mind and not allow the continued use of your information (and to 
stop taking part in the study) at any time. If you take away permission, your information will no 
longer be used or shared in the study, but we will not be able to take back information that has 
already been used or shared with others. If you say yes now but change your mind later for use 
of your information in the research, you must write to the researcher and tell him or her of 
your decision: Dr. Judith Deutsch, 65 Bergen Street SSB, Room # 736,  phone # (973-972-2373)
Pro2021002091
            12/6/2021
Version #2 - October 27, 2021
 
Protocol # - Pro2021002091
Page 6 of 7
How long will my permission last?
Your permission for the use and sharing of your health information will last until:
          There is no set date when your permission will end. Your health information may be 
studied for many years. 
AGREEMENT TO PARTICIPATE
1.  Subject consent:
I have read this entire consent form, or it has been read to me, and I believe that I 
understand what has been discussed.  All of my questions about this form and this study 
have been answered.  I agree to take part in this study.
Subject Name:
Subject Signature:
 Date:
2.  Signature of Investigator/Individual Obtaining Consent:
To the best of my ability, I have explained and discussed all the important details about the 
study including all of the information contained in this consent form.  
Investigator/Person Obtaining Consent (printed name):
Signature:
 Date: 
Pro2021002091
            12/6/2021
Version #2 - October 27, 2021
 
Protocol # - Pro2021002091
Page 7 of 7
RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW JERSEY IRB
AUDIO/VIDEOTAPE ADDENDUM TO CONSENT FORM 
You have already agreed to participate in a research study conducted by Judith Deutsch PT PhD.  We are 
asking for your permission to allow us to both audio and videotape as part of that research study.   You 
do not have to agree to be recorded in order to participate in the main part of the study. 
The recording(s) will be used for 
1.
possible use as a teaching tool to those who are 
not members of the research staff or may be members of the research staff in the future 
2.
presented at a scientific conference to describe the study
The recording(s) will include not include any personal identifier.  whether the subjects Videotaping will 
block a participants’ identity by covering the face and whenever possible videotaping from the back 
and side. 
The recording(s) will be stored on a secure computer with no link to the participants’ identity and will 
be retained indefinitely. 
   
Your signature on this form grants the investigator named above permission to record you as described 
above during participation in the above-referenced study.  The investigator will not use the recording(s) 
for any other reason than that/those stated in the consent form without your written permission.  
AGREEMENT TO VIDEO and RECORD
1.  Subject consent:
I have read the consent to videotape and record or it has been read to me, and I believe that I 
understand what has been discussed.  All of my questions about this form have been answered.  I 
agree to allow video taping and recording during the research study.
Subject Name:
Subject Signature:
 Date:
2.  Signature of Investigator/Individual Obtaining Consent:
To the best of my ability, I have explained and discussed the videotaping and recording aspects of 
study.  All questions of the research subject or legally authorized representative have been 
accurately answered.
Investigator/Person Obtaining Consent (printed name):
Signature:
 Date: 
Pro2021002091
            12/6/2021
